docs/4_Point_verif_and_visualisation.md, before:

# Point verification

Once the configuration file is set and the sqlite tables are created, the point verification can be carried out. 

## set_params.R

This parameter list file is used to specify the parameters considered by the `point_verif.R` script and their associated options, in particular:
- **scale_fcst**: Forecast scaling (e.g. Kelvin to degress). If you only want to apply the forecast scaling to certain models in `verif:fcst_model` for certain paramters, this can be controlled by the flag `models_to_scale` in your parameter list file (e.g. set_params.R, see below).
- **scale_obs**: Observation scaling.
- **thresholds**: Thresholds used when computing threshold skill scores.
- **obsmin/max_val**: Max/min observation values allowed.
- **fctmax_val**: Max forecast values allowed (experimental).
- **error_sd**: Number of standard deviations used in `harpPoint::check_obs_against_fcst`.
- **models_to_scale**: What specific models to scale using `scale_fcst` for this parameter. If missing or NULL for a given parameter, the same scaling will be applied to all models specified by `verif:fcst_model` in the config file if `scale_fcst` is specified. If `models_to_scale` contains a model which is not found in the forecast data, the `point_verif.R` script will abort. For example, suppose you read in two models ("Model_A" and "Model_B") and you only want to scale "Model_A" for T2m and "Model_B" for S10m. Then you should add `models_to_scale = c("Model_A")` under the T2m list and `models_to_scale=c("Model_B")` under the S10m list. For all other parameters where `scale_fcst` is specified, the same scaling will be applied to both "Model_A" and "Model_B". 

Typically this file does not need to be changed. By default `point_verif.R` reads parameter options from this file, but a custom parameter file can also be used by passing the `-params_file` option to `point_verif.R`. 

## point_verif.R

### Inputs and usage 

This script takes the following command line inputs (required arguments in **bold**, optional arguments are in *italics*):

- **-config_file**: The config file in the `config_files` directory (no default).
- **-start_date**: The first forecast cycle to process (in YYYYMM, YYYYMMDD, or YYYYMMDDHH format (preferred), with no default). If YYYYMM is given then the first day and cycle of the month (i.e. 01/00Z) is assumed. If YYYYMMDD is given then the first cycle (i.e. 00Z) of YYYYMMDD is assumed.
- **-end_date**: The last forecast cycle to process (in YYYYMM, YYYYMMDD, or YYYYMMDDHH format (preferred), with no default). If YYYYMM is given then the last day and cycle of the month (i.e. lastday/23Z) is assumed. If YYYYMMDD is given then the last cycle (i.e. 23Z) of YYYYMMDD is assumed.
- *-params_file*: The parameter list file containing parameter scalings, thresholds, etc. (default="verification/set_params.R"). **Note: if you are making use of the `models_to_scale` option in the parameter list file, it is best to create a new parameter list file and explicitly call this when you are running point_verif.R. Sharing a parameter list file with specific model scalings across different projects may be dangerous due to common models e.g. Model A is scaled for T2m in project X, but it is not scaled for T2m in project Y. Unfortunately creating new parameter lists for specific projects does introduce some code duplication.**
- *-params_list*: Which parameters for verify (default="T2m"). This should be a comma separated string of parameters, for example "T2m,S10m,T,S". These parameters should exist in the parameter list file, otherwise they will be skipped. If `params_list` is not specified, it just defaults to "T2m". Note that for `params_list="All"` all parameters in the parameter list file are considered in the verification (this is NOT recommended in general).
- *-dynamic_sid_gen*: A logical flag to generate SID lists corresponding to the `verif:domains` during the verification process (default=TRUE). Different `domain` options are defined in `fn_station_selection.pm`. This flag replaces the old methodology of reading SID lists from a static file (i.e. `verification/sid_lists.rds`). This old (now deprecated) method can be activated by switching this flag to "FALSE".
- *-plot_dynamic_sid*: A logical flag to plot a map of the stations used for each domain and parameter (default=FALSE). This is only relevant when "dynamic_sid_gen=TRUE".
- *-mod_def_rds*: A logical flag to prepend the project name to harp's default rds filenames (default=FALSE). Not generally required.
- *-add_proj_png*: A logical flag to prepend the project name to the default png filenames (default=FALSE). Not generally required. 
- *-rolling_verif*: A logcial flag to indicate "rolling" verification (default=FALSE). If TRUE, rolling verification will produce a reduced set of png files and will not produce rds files or scorecards. Generally rolling verification is restricted to a "short" (e.g. 7 days) near-real time period. This option is not compatible with `gen_sc_only=TRUE`. 
- *-gen_sc_only*: A logical flag to run scorecard generation (and plotting) only (default=FALSE). This may be useful in cases where point verification results have already been generated. This option is not compatible with `rolling_verif=TRUE`. 
- *-use_fixed_dates*: A logical flag to use the input `start_date` and `end_date` when naming the directories and png files associated with this verification (default=TRUE). If set to FALSE, the data generated will use start and end dates corresponding to the first and last `fcst_dttm`, respectively, used in the verification for a given parameter. Therefore if set to FALSE, data may be stored in different directories for different parameters if the first and last `fcst_dttm` differs (this can happen in particular for precipitation). This option does not change the start/end dates in the rds filenames. 
- *-skip_sid_verif*: A logical flag to skip the SID verification used for generating map scores (default=FALSE). Useful for quick runs.
- *-skip_thresh_verif*: A logical flag to skip the threshold verification (default=FALSE). This will override whatever is set for thresholds in your parameters file. Useful for quick runs.

Alternatively, the script can be sourced directly from within R/RStudio. In this case, the arguments will be read from the `verification/source_options.R` file. This interactive mode is useful for interrogating the data. 

Typical usage:
``` 
./point_verif.R -config_file config_files/config_det_example.yml -start_date YYYYMMDDHH -end_date YYYYMMDDHH -params_file verification/set_params.R -params_list "T2m,Q"
```
This will run the verifcation for using cycles from `start_date` to `end_date` in steps of `verif:by_step` for parameters T2m and Q.

### QC

The following QC checks of the forecast and observation data are carried out by the script:

- Forcast values above `fctmax_val` are removed (if this variable is set).
- Observation values above/below the `obsmin_val`/`obsmax_val` are removed (if these variables are set).
- `harpPoint::check_obs_against_fcst` is run to remove observations which are more than `error_sd` standard devations away from the forecast.
- Station report frequency is computed and stations in the bottom 1% are removed. This acts to discard stations with very few observation reports. 

### Verification groups

By default the script assumes the following verificaiton for surface and upper-air variables (see `harpCore::make_verif_groups()` for more information):
- Surface: Data is grouped by `fcst_cycle` and the SID grouping specified by the `verif:domains` option in the config file (this is stored under the variable `station_group` in the scripts). Verification scores are then computed as a function of leadtime, valid date, and valid hour.
- Upper air: Data is group by the SID grouping specified by the `verif:domains` option and scores computed as a function of leadtime and valid hour. 

### Output

`point_verif.R` will produce standard harp `.rds` files which contain the full suite of verification scores available in harp by default. These files will be stored in:
```
{verif:verif_path}/{verif:project_name}/harpPointVerif.harp.{parameter}.harp.{start_date}-{end_date}.harp.{forecast_model_1}.model.{forecast_model_2).model...{forecast_model_N}.rds
```
Typically the filenames for the harp rds files should not be changed as the harp shiny app assumes a set format. Note that while the filenames do not contain information about the `verif:domains` considered, the domain selection is included in the rds files under the `station_group` variable. 

If `post:create_png: TRUE`, then a suite of standard verification scores are plotted as png files for local visualisation. These local files will also include plots which are not available in harp's shiny app, such as forecast timeseries and station bias/rmse maps. These files should appear in:
```
{post:plot_output}/{verif:project_name}/{start_date}-{end_date}/long_file_names.png 
```
(the filenames are somewhat convoluted and should not be changed as a strict structure is assumed in the local shiny app). See `fn_png_name` in `fn_plot_helpers.R` for more information on the convention used.

If you are also generating a scorecard (`scorecards:create_scrd: TRUE`), then all the underlying scorecard data (for each domain) will be saved to:
```
{verif:verif_path}/{verif:project_name}/harpScData-{start_date}-{end_date}-{scorecards:ref_model}-{scorecards:fcst_model).rds
```
Scorecard plots will also be available in
```
{post:plot_output}/{verif:project_name}/{start_date}-{end_date}/*scard*.png
```
The scorecard data can be passed to `fn_scorecard_signif.R` for visualisation if desired. If `scorecards:plot_signif: TRUE`, these images will be available in the same directory (search for `*sdiff*.png`).

## Visualisation 

The rds files can be visualised by using harp's built-in shiny app:
```
shiny_plot_point_verif(start_dir={verif:verif_path}/{verif:project_name})
```
For example, when loading in a surface parameter, you should see groups for `station_group` and `fcst_cycle` and different options for the "Time" axis.

To browse the png images easily, a simple shiny app is provided with a similar interface to the "monitor" tool. This shiny app is defined in `visualization/visapp/app.R`. Some small edits to `app.R` may need to be taken in order to run the app locally, as detailed below.

1. The variable `img_dir` is set to NULL by default, which just looks for files in the `sample_images` directory provided in visapp. Set `img_dir <- {plot_output}` instead to point to the images available there after verification.
2. Optional: By default the variable `app_dir` is set to `here("visualization/visapp")` and this should correctly point to the `visapp` directory provided that `here()` starts in this repository. If this is not the case for some reason, alternatively you can hardcode `img_dir` to the location of the `visapp` directory on your system. 
3. Optional: Add your project name to `all_experiment_names.R` in the `visapp` directory, following the convention given, in order to change the display name of the project in the app. If your project is not listed in `all_experiment_names.R`, it will still appear in the app but with a default display name.
4. Optional: There is a `smr_ind` variable which changes the date display in the app to cater for dates categrorsied into "Rolling", "Monthly", and "Seasonal" periods. This assumes that data in `plot_output` is stored under directories following the strcuture `Monthly/project_name/start_date-end_date`, and the same for `Rolling` and `Seasonal`. This switch can generally be left as FALSE. 

Note that you can have images for multiple projects in `plot_output` and switch easily between projects in the app. The app will read all directories which exist in `plot_output`, and therefore you need to remove the `project_name` directory from `plot_output` in order to remove the project from the app. The app can then be launched by opening `app.R` in Rstudio and hitting "Run App". From a terminal, cd into the visualization directory, open R, and use:

``` r
library(shiny)
runApp("visapp")
```

### Fixed colours for certain models

In many cases you may want to associate a given forecast model with a fixed colour in the png plots e.g. "model_A" is always coloured red. To do this, search for `model_names` in `visualization/fn_plot_helpers.R`, which defaults to:


``` r
# Some fixed model names which the verification scripts know about.
# The default below considers 20 known models, corresponding to the number
# available from "trubetskoy" in the pals packages (less last two colours).
# The number of colours available in RColorBrewer is typically less, while
# pals offers more options. 
model_names  <- c("c1",
                  "c2",
                  "c3",
                  "c4",
                  "c5",
                  "c6",
                  "c7",
                  "c8",
                  "c9",
                  "c10",
                  "c11",
                  "c12",
                  "c13",
                  "c14",
                  "c15",
                  "c16",
                  "c17",
                  "c18",
                  "c19",
                  "c20")
```

Then take a look at your chosen colour pallete (as specfied by cmap in your config file) from the [pals](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/pals/vignettes/pals_examples.html) or [RColorBrewer](https://r-graph-gallery.com/38-rcolorbrewers-palettes.html) packages and replace "cX" by your model name for the colour you want. Note that the index of your model in `model_names` is assoicated with the colour for that index in the palette. For example, if you use `cmap:trubetskoy` in your config file and set:

``` r
model_names  <- c("model_A",
                  "c2",
                  "c3",
                  "model_B",
...
```


then "model_A" will be always be in red and "model_B" will always be in blue i.e. the 1st and 4th colours of the trubetskoy pallete. If some or all of your forecast models are not listed in `model_names`, the colours assoicated with these models will default to the first ones available in the palette. For example, suppose you have forecast models "model_A", "model_B", and "model_C" and `model_names` is set as per the example above. In this case "model_A" will be in red, "model_B" be in blue", and "model_C" will be in green (i.e. the 2nd colour of the trubetskoy pallete, as the 1st colour is already taken by "model_A"). 

### Visualizing the results direcly in atos
It is possible to run the shiny web server directly on atos and open a local browser
to visualized the results `img_dir` using the `launch_visapp_atos.R` script.

1. Soft link the path with the image results in the `sample_images` directory.
```
cd visapp/sample_images/
ln -sf some_path_somewhere local_name_of_the_path
cd ../..
module load R #mind the version where you installed harp
Rscript launch_visapp_atos.R
```

2. Open a new terminal and ssh to one of the atos login nodes
```
ssh -L 9999:localhost:9999 ac6-102
```

3. Open the browser on `http://127.0.0.1:9999/` that should show up after doing step 1.
 
or simply click on the link displayed in the terminal.

This will open a local browser in your local pc showing the shiny app there
while the png files are in the remote server.

Yo might need to install the `shinyWidgets` app.

The same is valid for visualizing the results interactively using the `rds` files.
In this case use the `launch_dynamicapp_atos.R` instead of `launch_visapp_atos.R` in step 1.

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
commit 4738d963172556b05d2dd0825376d37e3a258868
Merge: 28efb24 499f4b6
Author: James Fannon <91901684+j-fannon@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Tue Jul 8 12:36:38 2025 +0100

    Merge pull request #152 from dmidk/dev

    Requests from EW

commit 499f4b69aa4943f042d6716c9963aeda56c4fa9a
Author: j-fannon <91901684+j-fannon@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Tue Jul 8 11:34:24 2025 +0000

    Add help button for panelificaiton to the app (use existing markdown)

commit 75d13b8143e372da9d108b1054d817a9988a0453
Author: j-fannon <91901684+j-fannon@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Tue Jul 8 11:32:29 2025 +0000

    Add flag to save SID verif object

commit 7a1703b46cfdcb6c63e81549f6342423c0522525
Author: j-fannon <91901684+j-fannon@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Tue Jul 8 09:44:17 2025 +0000

    Allow for passing of a single station SID as a domain in the config

commit 3dfee4fc4f174dea769ba8f2fe33a28ff0f403d9
Author: j-fannon <91901684+j-fannon@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Tue Jul 8 09:00:55 2025 +0000

    Add domains_UA as a config file option and remove hardcoding of "large" doamins for UA variables

docs/4_Point_verif_and_visualisation.md, after:

# Point verification

Once the configuration file is set and the sqlite tables are created, the point verification can be carried out. 

## set_params.R

This parameter list file is used to specify the parameters considered by the `point_verif.R` script and their associated options, in particular:
- **scale_fcst**: Forecast scaling (e.g. Kelvin to degress). If you only want to apply the forecast scaling to certain models in `verif:fcst_model` for certain paramters, this can be controlled by the flag `models_to_scale` in your parameter list file (e.g. set_params.R, see below).
- **scale_obs**: Observation scaling.
- **thresholds**: Thresholds used when computing threshold skill scores.
- **obsmin/max_val**: Max/min observation values allowed.
- **fctmax_val**: Max forecast values allowed (experimental).
- **error_sd**: Number of standard deviations used in `harpPoint::check_obs_against_fcst`.
- **models_to_scale**: What specific models to scale using `scale_fcst` for this parameter. If missing or NULL for a given parameter, the same scaling will be applied to all models specified by `verif:fcst_model` in the config file if `scale_fcst` is specified. If `models_to_scale` contains a model which is not found in the forecast data, the `point_verif.R` script will abort. For example, suppose you read in two models ("Model_A" and "Model_B") and you only want to scale "Model_A" for T2m and "Model_B" for S10m. Then you should add `models_to_scale = c("Model_A")` under the T2m list and `models_to_scale=c("Model_B")` under the S10m list. For all other parameters where `scale_fcst` is specified, the same scaling will be applied to both "Model_A" and "Model_B". 

Typically this file does not need to be changed. By default `point_verif.R` reads parameter options from this file, but a custom parameter file can also be used by passing the `-params_file` option to `point_verif.R`. 

## point_verif.R

### Inputs and usage 

This script takes the following command line inputs (required arguments in **bold**, optional arguments are in *italics*):

- **-config_file**: The config file in the `config_files` directory (no default).
- **-start_date**: The first forecast cycle to process (in YYYYMM, YYYYMMDD, or YYYYMMDDHH format (preferred), with no default). If YYYYMM is given then the first day and cycle of the month (i.e. 01/00Z) is assumed. If YYYYMMDD is given then the first cycle (i.e. 00Z) of YYYYMMDD is assumed.
- **-end_date**: The last forecast cycle to process (in YYYYMM, YYYYMMDD, or YYYYMMDDHH format (preferred), with no default). If YYYYMM is given then the last day and cycle of the month (i.e. lastday/23Z) is assumed. If YYYYMMDD is given then the last cycle (i.e. 23Z) of YYYYMMDD is assumed.
- *-params_file*: The parameter list file containing parameter scalings, thresholds, etc. (default="verification/set_params.R"). **Note: if you are making use of the `models_to_scale` option in the parameter list file, it is best to create a new parameter list file and explicitly call this when you are running point_verif.R. Sharing a parameter list file with specific model scalings across different projects may be dangerous due to common models e.g. Model A is scaled for T2m in project X, but it is not scaled for T2m in project Y. Unfortunately creating new parameter lists for specific projects does introduce some code duplication.**
- *-params_list*: Which parameters for verify (default="T2m"). This should be a comma separated string of parameters, for example "T2m,S10m,T,S". These parameters should exist in the parameter list file, otherwise they will be skipped. If `params_list` is not specified, it just defaults to "T2m". Note that for `params_list="All"` all parameters in the parameter list file are considered in the verification (this is NOT recommended in general).
- *-dynamic_sid_gen*: A logical flag to generate SID lists corresponding to the `verif:domains` or `verif:doamins_UA` during the verification process (default=TRUE). Different `domains` options are defined in `fn_station_selection.pm`. This flag replaces the old methodology of reading SID lists from a static file (i.e. `verification/sid_lists.rds`). This old (now deprecated) method can be activated by switching this flag to "FALSE".
- *-plot_dynamic_sid*: A logical flag to plot a map of the stations used for each domain and parameter (default=FALSE). This is only relevant when "dynamic_sid_gen=TRUE".
- *-mod_def_rds*: A logical flag to prepend the project name to harp's default rds filenames (default=FALSE). Not generally required.
- *-add_proj_png*: A logical flag to prepend the project name to the default png filenames (default=FALSE). Not generally required. 
- *-rolling_verif*: A logcial flag to indicate "rolling" verification (default=FALSE). If TRUE, rolling verification will produce a reduced set of png files and will not produce rds files or scorecards. Generally rolling verification is restricted to a "short" (e.g. 7 days) near-real time period. This option is not compatible with `gen_sc_only=TRUE`. 
- *-gen_sc_only*: A logical flag to run scorecard generation (and plotting) only (default=FALSE). This may be useful in cases where point verification results have already been generated. This option is not compatible with `rolling_verif=TRUE`. 
- *-use_fixed_dates*: A logical flag to use the input `start_date` and `end_date` when naming the directories and png files associated with this verification (default=TRUE). If set to FALSE, the data generated will use start and end dates corresponding to the first and last `fcst_dttm`, respectively, used in the verification for a given parameter. Therefore if set to FALSE, data may be stored in different directories for different parameters if the first and last `fcst_dttm` differs (this can happen in particular for precipitation). This option does not change the start/end dates in the rds filenames. 
- *-skip_sid_verif*: A logical flag to skip the SID verification used for generating map scores (default=FALSE). Useful for quick runs.
- *-skip_thresh_verif*: A logical flag to skip the threshold verification (default=FALSE). This will override whatever is set for thresholds in your parameters file. Useful for quick runs.

Alternatively, the script can be sourced directly from within R/RStudio. In this case, the arguments will be read from the `verification/source_options.R` file. This interactive mode is useful for interrogating the data. 

Typical usage:
``` 
./point_verif.R -config_file config_files/config_det_example.yml -start_date YYYYMMDDHH -end_date YYYYMMDDHH -params_file verification/set_params.R -params_list "T2m,Q"
```
This will run the verifcation for using cycles from `start_date` to `end_date` in steps of `verif:by_step` for parameters T2m and Q.

### QC

The following QC checks of the forecast and observation data are carried out by the script:

- Forcast values above `fctmax_val` are removed (if this variable is set).
- Observation values above/below the `obsmin_val`/`obsmax_val` are removed (if these variables are set).
- `harpPoint::check_obs_against_fcst` is run to remove observations which are more than `error_sd` standard devations away from the forecast.
- Station report frequency is computed and stations in the bottom 1% are removed. This acts to discard stations with very few observation reports. 

### Verification groups

By default the script assumes the following verificaiton for surface and upper-air variables (see `harpCore::make_verif_groups()` for more information):
- Surface: Data is grouped by `fcst_cycle` and the SID grouping specified by the `verif:domains` option in the config file (this is stored under the variable `station_group` in the scripts). Verification scores are then computed as a function of leadtime, valid date, and valid hour.
- Upper air: Data is group by the SID grouping specified by the `verif:domains_UA` option and scores computed as a function of leadtime and valid hour. If `verif:domains_UA` is missing from the config (or set ot NULL), then `verif:domains` will be used for the SID grouping.

### Output

`point_verif.R` will produce standard harp `.rds` files which contain the full suite of verification scores available in harp by default. These files will be stored in:
```
{verif:verif_path}/{verif:project_name}/harpPointVerif.harp.{parameter}.harp.{start_date}-{end_date}.harp.{forecast_model_1}.model.{forecast_model_2).model...{forecast_model_N}.rds
```
Typically the filenames for the harp rds files should not be changed as the harp shiny app assumes a set format. Note that while the filenames do not contain information about the `verif:domains` or `verif:doamins_UA` considered, the domain selection is included in the rds files under the `station_group` variable. 

If `post:create_png: TRUE`, then a suite of standard verification scores are plotted as png files for local visualisation. These local files will also include plots which are not available in harp's shiny app, such as forecast timeseries and station bias/rmse maps. These files should appear in:
```
{post:plot_output}/{verif:project_name}/{start_date}-{end_date}/long_file_names.png 
```
(the filenames are somewhat convoluted and should not be changed as a strict structure is assumed in the local shiny app). See `fn_png_name` in `fn_plot_helpers.R` for more information on the convention used.

If you are also generating a scorecard (`scorecards:create_scrd: TRUE`), then all the underlying scorecard data (for each domain) will be saved to:
```
{verif:verif_path}/{verif:project_name}/harpScData-{start_date}-{end_date}-{scorecards:ref_model}-{scorecards:fcst_model).rds
```
Scorecard plots will also be available in
```
{post:plot_output}/{verif:project_name}/{start_date}-{end_date}/*scard*.png
```
The scorecard data can be passed to `fn_scorecard_signif.R` for visualisation if desired. If `scorecards:plot_signif: TRUE`, these images will be available in the same directory (search for `*sdiff*.png`).

## Visualisation 

The rds files can be visualised by using harp's built-in shiny app:
```
shiny_plot_point_verif(start_dir={verif:verif_path}/{verif:project_name})
```
For example, when loading in a surface parameter, you should see groups for `station_group` and `fcst_cycle` and different options for the "Time" axis.

To browse the png images easily, a simple shiny app is provided with a similar interface to the "monitor" tool. This shiny app is defined in `visualization/visapp/app.R`. Some small edits to `app.R` may need to be taken in order to run the app locally, as detailed below.

1. The variable `img_dir` is set to NULL by default, which just looks for files in the `sample_images` directory provided in visapp. Set `img_dir <- {plot_output}` instead to point to the images available there after verification.
2. Optional: By default the variable `app_dir` is set to `here("visualization/visapp")` and this should correctly point to the `visapp` directory provided that `here()` starts in this repository. If this is not the case for some reason, alternatively you can hardcode `img_dir` to the location of the `visapp` directory on your system. 
3. Optional: Add your project name to `all_experiment_names.R` in the `visapp` directory, following the convention given, in order to change the display name of the project in the app. If your project is not listed in `all_experiment_names.R`, it will still appear in the app but with a default display name.
4. Optional: There is a `smr_ind` variable which changes the date display in the app to cater for dates categrorsied into "Rolling", "Monthly", and "Seasonal" periods. This assumes that data in `plot_output` is stored under directories following the strcuture `Monthly/project_name/start_date-end_date`, and the same for `Rolling` and `Seasonal`. This switch can generally be left as FALSE. 

Note that you can have images for multiple projects in `plot_output` and switch easily between projects in the app. The app will read all directories which exist in `plot_output`, and therefore you need to remove the `project_name` directory from `plot_output` in order to remove the project from the app. The app can then be launched by opening `app.R` in Rstudio and hitting "Run App". From a terminal, cd into the visualization directory, open R, and use:

``` r
library(shiny)
runApp("visapp")
```

### Fixed colours for certain models

In many cases you may want to associate a given forecast model with a fixed colour in the png plots e.g. "model_A" is always coloured red. To do this, search for `model_names` in `visualization/fn_plot_helpers.R`, which defaults to:


``` r
# Some fixed model names which the verification scripts know about.
# The default below considers 20 known models, corresponding to the number
# available from "trubetskoy" in the pals packages (less last two colours).
# The number of colours available in RColorBrewer is typically less, while
# pals offers more options. 
model_names  <- c("c1",
                  "c2",
                  "c3",
                  "c4",
                  "c5",
                  "c6",
                  "c7",
                  "c8",
                  "c9",
                  "c10",
                  "c11",
                  "c12",
                  "c13",
                  "c14",
                  "c15",
                  "c16",
                  "c17",
                  "c18",
                  "c19",
                  "c20")
```

Then take a look at your chosen colour pallete (as specfied by cmap in your config file) from the [pals](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/pals/vignettes/pals_examples.html) or [RColorBrewer](https://r-graph-gallery.com/38-rcolorbrewers-palettes.html) packages and replace "cX" by your model name for the colour you want. Note that the index of your model in `model_names` is assoicated with the colour for that index in the palette. For example, if you use `cmap:trubetskoy` in your config file and set:

``` r
model_names  <- c("model_A",
                  "c2",
                  "c3",
                  "model_B",
...
```


then "model_A" will be always be in red and "model_B" will always be in blue i.e. the 1st and 4th colours of the trubetskoy pallete. If some or all of your forecast models are not listed in `model_names`, the colours assoicated with these models will default to the first ones available in the palette. For example, suppose you have forecast models "model_A", "model_B", and "model_C" and `model_names` is set as per the example above. In this case "model_A" will be in red, "model_B" be in blue", and "model_C" will be in green (i.e. the 2nd colour of the trubetskoy pallete, as the 1st colour is already taken by "model_A"). 

### Visualizing the results direcly in atos
It is possible to run the shiny web server directly on atos and open a local browser
to visualized the results `img_dir` using the `launch_visapp_atos.R` script.

1. Soft link the path with the image results in the `sample_images` directory.
```
cd visapp/sample_images/
ln -sf some_path_somewhere local_name_of_the_path
cd ../..
module load R #mind the version where you installed harp
Rscript launch_visapp_atos.R
```

2. Open a new terminal and ssh to one of the atos login nodes
```
ssh -L 9999:localhost:9999 ac6-102
```

3. Open the browser on `http://127.0.0.1:9999/` that should show up after doing step 1.
 
or simply click on the link displayed in the terminal.

This will open a local browser in your local pc showing the shiny app there
while the png files are in the remote server.

Yo might need to install the `shinyWidgets` app.

The same is valid for visualizing the results interactively using the `rds` files.
In this case use the `launch_dynamicapp_atos.R` instead of `launch_visapp_atos.R` in step 1.
