ACCORD_VS_202406/README.md, before:

# Developments done during Polly Schmederer's ACCORD VS at DMI (June 2024)

Polly Schmederer (GeoSphere), Carlos Peralta (DMI) and Fabrizio Baordo (DMI)

**Topics of VS**

Generalising spatial verifications: improving R scripting; use of reticulate package to interface R with Python; generalise/ apply harp panel tool ("panelification"); providing examples

**Data used for spatial verification**

Observations:
  
  DMI's radar precipitation product: Surface Quantitative Precipitation Estimation (SQPE) using both rain gauge and radar data

  EUMETSAT SEVIRI data (https://api.eumetsat.int/data/browse/collections): High Rate SEVIRI Level 1.5 Image Data - MSG - 0 degree (native), e.g. MSG3-SEVI-MSG15-0100-NA-20240102235743.693000000Z-NA.nat

NWP:

  Grib files output of the DEODE workflow running HARMONIE cy46h1 (total presipitation and FULL POS simulated radiances channels WV_062 & IR_108)

### Installation instructions

Development was done on ATOS (shared using accord group)

Refer to the [installation instructions](INSTALLATION.md) for details of how to install the libraries.

### Overview of the repository

* **reading_functions (in scripts folder)**
  
  **using reticulate**
  
  - ``reading_functions.R``: Contains reading R functions.
    - read_msg_reticulate() calls python function that reads/ regrids the data and converts the returned data into a harp data frame.
    - read_nc_reticulte() calls python function that reads snow data and converts the returned data into a harp data frame.
  - ``reading_functions.py``: Contains the python functions that are called by R to read / regrid satellite observations (.nat) and model data (.grib).
    - sat_model_to_same_grid() reads/ regrids satellite data.
    - get_data_nc_file() reads regridded snow data in nc format.
    
  **using R/harp**
  - ``reading_functions.R``:  Contains reading R functions.
    - read_param_with_grbmessg() uses grib message to read simulated satellite channels as they are defined in the file as "unknown".
    - read_deode_tp() adds "tirf", "tgrp" and "tsnowp" to "tp" (total precipitation).
    
* **panelification**
  
  **in scripts folder**
  - ``run_panelification``: Run the panelification scripts with set input parameters.
  - ``panel_main.R``: Main scripts for panelification. Reads configs, does the verificatio, calls ranking and plotting.functions.
  - ``panel_ranking_functions.R``: All functions for ranking the scores are collected in this file.
  - ``panel_utils.R``: Some additional functions that are called by panel_ranking_functions.R.
  - ``panel_plotting_functions.R``: All functions for plotting the panelification tool can be found here.
    
  **in panel_configs folder**
  - ``panelification.yml``: Sets the configs for which the panel tool shall be run.
    E.g. date, parameter, models, lead_time and which config files shall be used for the reading of model/obs reading and their verification.
    Switch that allows to plot FSS and fields separately.
  - ``definitions_tp_data.R``: Collects the information needed to read and verify total precipitation of the DEODE.experiments against DMI's radar composite.
  - ``definitions_sat_data.R``: Collects the information needed to read and verify simulated satellite channels from DEODE. experiments agains seviri data.
  - ``definitions_tp_plotting.R``: Defines colour scheme and breaks for precipitaion fields.
  - ``definitions_sat_plotting.R.``: Defines colour scheme and breaks for infrared fields.
  
* **data (in sample_data folder)**
  
  This folder contains sample data which allows to test and run the functionality of spatial verification.
  
  NWP data in ``sample_data/deode/`` or ``sample_data/dini/``,
  
  radar precipitation products in ``sample_data/radar/``,

  snow data in ``sample_data/snow_data/``.
  
  EUMETSAT SEVIRI data must be downloaded and placed in ``sample_data/seviri/``.
      
* **examples (in scripts folder)**

  **read data using reticulate**
  
  ``example_read_DataUsingReticulate.R``: Example of how to read satellite data using reticulate. Plots how the output of the functions (directly and via read_grid) looks like.
  If manually run in a terminal one can also use the plotting example to see how the fields actually look.
  
  **spatial verification**
  
  examples on how verify_spatial can be used used:
  - ``example_verify_tp_deode.R``: An example file for verifying total precipitation of DEODE experiments.
  - ``example_verify_sat_deode.R``: An example file for verifying simulated brightness temperatures against seviri data.
  - ``example_verify_snow_deode.R``: An example file for verifying regridded snow data.

**How to...**

**... run the panelification**
- Run panel script ``./scripts/run_panelification`` to see whether the scripts and installation works for you.
- Check ``run_panelification`` to see how to call the panelification main function ``panel_main()``.
- To
  - run _different dates_ or _lead_times_ (for which the mod/obs data is available),
  - decide _which models_ should be displayed or
  - switch separate _plotting of FSS and fields_ ON or OFF
    
  change the settings accordingly in ``panel_configs/panelification.yml``.

- To run panelification out of the box
  1. cd ACCORD_VS_202406
  2. modules load:
	```
	  module load R/4.3.3
	  module load ecmwf-toolbox/2024.04.0.0
	  module load hdf5/1.14.3
	  module load proj/9.3.1
	  module load python3/3.11.8-01 (only necessary to run sat_verif)
	```
  3. export your R local installation, e.g.:
     (in case step ii alone is not working)
      ```
      export R_LIBS_USER=<path_to_harp_local_installation>/renv/library/R-4.3/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu
      ```
  5. run panelification for precipitation, e.g.:
     ```
     Rscript ./scripts/panel_main.R prec_verif
     ```
     Plots, as a results of point iv, are saved in ``PLOTS/`` folder.

   You can also test the spatial verification for satellite radiances, but to do that, firstly, you need to download the expected EUMETSAT SEVIRI data (as configured in panel_configs/definitions_sat_data.R), then you can run: 
     ```
     Rscript ./scripts/panel_main.R sat_verif
     ```
  
**... add other models**

To add another model (panel) to panelification, a file with their definitions on how to read/verify must be added, which will then be added to the panelification.yml.
1. Know how to read the model that should be added. (An example on how the data may be read can be found in ``example_read_DataUsingReticulate.R``).
2. Run verify_spatial, to see how the configurations must be passed to this function (see the examples ``example_verify_tp_deode.R``, ``example_verify_sat_deode.R`` or ``example_verify_snow_deode.R``).
3. Copy a definitions_* file (``definitions_<new>.R``) and change all parameters as needed, to read/verify the data correctly.
4. Specify the new file in ``panel_configs/panelification.yml`` for model and parameter.
   (Define which config files to use > READING of the models/obs).
5. If a new parameter was added, also add a definition file for this parameter in ``panel_configs/panelification.yml``
   (Define which config files to use > PLOTTING of the fields).

Commit message:

Updated README with dini vs ifs example

ACCORD_VS_202406/README.md, after:

# Developments done during Polly Schmederer's ACCORD VS at DMI (June 2024)

Polly Schmederer (GeoSphere), Carlos Peralta (DMI) and Fabrizio Baordo (DMI)

**Topics of VS**

Generalising spatial verifications: improving R scripting; use of reticulate package to interface R with Python; generalise/ apply harp panel tool ("panelification"); providing examples

**Data used for spatial verification**

Observations:
  
  DMI's radar precipitation product: Surface Quantitative Precipitation Estimation (SQPE) using both rain gauge and radar data

  EUMETSAT SEVIRI data (https://api.eumetsat.int/data/browse/collections): High Rate SEVIRI Level 1.5 Image Data - MSG - 0 degree (native), e.g. MSG3-SEVI-MSG15-0100-NA-20240102235743.693000000Z-NA.nat

NWP:

  Grib files output of the DEODE workflow running HARMONIE cy46h1 (total presipitation and FULL POS simulated radiances channels WV_062 & IR_108)

### Installation instructions

Development was done on ATOS (shared using accord group)

Refer to the [installation instructions](INSTALLATION.md) for details of how to install the libraries.

### Overview of the repository

* **reading_functions (in scripts folder)**
  
  **using reticulate**
  
  - ``reading_functions.R``: Contains reading R functions.
    - read_msg_reticulate() calls python function that reads/ regrids the data and converts the returned data into a harp data frame.
    - read_nc_reticulte() calls python function that reads snow data and converts the returned data into a harp data frame.
  - ``reading_functions.py``: Contains the python functions that are called by R to read / regrid satellite observations (.nat) and model data (.grib).
    - sat_model_to_same_grid() reads/ regrids satellite data.
    - get_data_nc_file() reads regridded snow data in nc format.
    
  **using R/harp**
  - ``reading_functions.R``:  Contains reading R functions.
    - read_param_with_grbmessg() uses grib message to read simulated satellite channels as they are defined in the file as "unknown".
    - read_deode_tp() adds "tirf", "tgrp" and "tsnowp" to "tp" (total precipitation).
    
* **panelification**
  
  **in scripts folder**
  - ``run_panelification``: Run the panelification scripts with set input parameters.
  - ``panel_main.R``: Main scripts for panelification. Reads configs, does the verificatio, calls ranking and plotting.functions.
  - ``panel_ranking_functions.R``: All functions for ranking the scores are collected in this file.
  - ``panel_utils.R``: Some additional functions that are called by panel_ranking_functions.R.
  - ``panel_plotting_functions.R``: All functions for plotting the panelification tool can be found here.
    
  **in panel_configs folder**
  - ``panelification.yml``: Sets the configs for which the panel tool shall be run.
    E.g. date, parameter, models, lead_time and which config files shall be used for the reading of model/obs reading and their verification.
    Switch that allows to plot FSS and fields separately.
  - ``definitions_tp_data.R``: Collects the information needed to read and verify total precipitation of the DEODE.experiments against DMI's radar composite.
  - ``definitions_sat_data.R``: Collects the information needed to read and verify simulated satellite channels from DEODE. experiments agains seviri data.
  - ``definitions_tp_plotting.R``: Defines colour scheme and breaks for precipitaion fields.
  - ``definitions_sat_plotting.R.``: Defines colour scheme and breaks for infrared fields.
  
* **data (in sample_data folder)**
  
  This folder contains sample data which allows to test and run the functionality of spatial verification.
  
  NWP data in ``sample_data/deode/`` or ``sample_data/dini/``,
  
  radar precipitation products in ``sample_data/radar/``,

  snow data in ``sample_data/snow_data/``.
  
  EUMETSAT SEVIRI data must be downloaded and placed in ``sample_data/seviri/``.
      
* **examples (in scripts folder)**

  **read data using reticulate**
  
  ``example_read_DataUsingReticulate.R``: Example of how to read satellite data using reticulate. Plots how the output of the functions (directly and via read_grid) looks like.
  If manually run in a terminal one can also use the plotting example to see how the fields actually look.
  
  **spatial verification**
  
  examples on how verify_spatial can be used used:
  - ``example_verify_tp_deode.R``: An example file for verifying total precipitation of DEODE experiments.
  - ``example_verify_sat_deode.R``: An example file for verifying simulated brightness temperatures against seviri data.
  - ``example_verify_snow_cover.R``: An example file for verifying regridded snow data.

**How to...**

**... run the panelification**
- Run panel script ``./scripts/run_panelification`` to see whether the scripts and installation works for you.
- Check ``run_panelification`` to see how to call the panelification main function ``panel_main()``.
- To
  - run _different dates_ or _lead_times_ (for which the mod/obs data is available),
  - decide _which models_ should be displayed or
  - switch separate _plotting of FSS and fields_ ON or OFF
    
  change the settings accordingly in ``panel_configs/panelification.yml``.

- To run panelification out of the box
  1. cd ACCORD_VS_202406
  2. modules load:
	```
	  module load R/4.3.3
	  module load ecmwf-toolbox/2024.04.0.0
	  module load hdf5/1.14.3
	  module load proj/9.3.1
	  module load python3/3.11.8-01 (only necessary to run sat_verif)
	```
  3. export your R local installation, e.g.:
     (in case step ii alone is not working)
      ```
      export R_LIBS_USER=<path_to_harp_local_installation>/renv/library/R-4.3/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu
      ```
  5. run panelification for precipitation, e.g.:
     ```
     Rscript ./scripts/panel_main.R prec_verif
     ```
     Plots, as a results of point iv, are saved in ``PLOTS/`` folder.

   You can also test the spatial verification for satellite radiances, but to do that, firstly, you need to download the expected EUMETSAT SEVIRI data (as configured in panel_configs/definitions_sat_data.R), then you can run: 
     ```
     Rscript ./scripts/panel_main.R sat_verif
     ```
  
**... add other models**

To add another model (panel) to panelification, a file with their definitions on how to read/verify must be added, which will then be added to the panelification.yml.
1. Know how to read the model that should be added. (An example on how the data may be read can be found in ``example_read_DataUsingReticulate.R``).
2. Run verify_spatial, to see how the configurations must be passed to this function (see the examples ``example_verify_tp_deode.R``, ``example_verify_sat_deode.R`` or ``example_verify_snow_cover.R``).
3. Copy a definitions_* file (``definitions_<new>.R``) and change all parameters as needed, to read/verify the data correctly.
4. Specify the new file in ``panel_configs/panelification.yml`` for model and parameter.
   (Define which config files to use > READING of the models/obs).
5. If a new parameter was added, also add a definition file for this parameter in ``panel_configs/panelification.yml``
   (Define which config files to use > PLOTTING of the fields).
     

**Example for other models**

     An example using data from the "dini" versus the "ifs" model is also provided, with the definitions in ``definitions_tp_data_dini.R`` .
     To test this example use the config file in ``panel_configs/panel_dini_ifs.yml` and run

     ```
     Rscript ./scripts/panel_main.R prec_verif panel_configs/panel_dini.yml
     ```
